1)what is java?
it communicate to machine so it is high level language
everything in java is object so it is called object oriented language
developed by sun microsystem-james gosling
developing web application

2)List some feature of java? 
syntax is simple
everything in java is object so it is called object oriented language
java can be run as any os platform independent
java can be convert to any other language so it is called portable
secured

3)explain jdk,jvm,jre?
jdk-
java developement kit (it is basically for developing java application)
it contains jre + development tools
jre-
java runtime environment (it is used for running the java program it contains library for running java program)
jvm-
java virtual machine (it provide a runtime environment in which java bytecode is executed)

4)why java is platform independent?
first java program is compiled and convert into byte code.that bytecode is platform independent because can be run on multiple platform.

5)why java is not 100% object-oriented?
because primitive datatype (byte, short, char, int ,long, boolean,float,double) are not object.
but primitive data type convert to object by wrapper classes 

6)expain public static void main(String args[]) in java?
public- it is access modifier that make method is accessible by any classes
static- it is a keyword in java which identified it is class based 
void- it is return type of method it not return any value
main- name of the method which is searched by jvm at starting point
String args[]- it is parameterised based main method

7)what are constructor in java?
block of code used to initialised an object
its samename as class namen and no return type
it is automatically called when object is created.

it is two type->
default constructor->
parameterised constructor->

8)why pointer are not used in java?
breacuse it is unsafe and increase the complexity ofthe program

9)what is jit compiler in java?
it help to convert the bytecode to instruction

10)what is meant by local and instance variable?
local variable-> that scope inside the method 
instance varible->that scope outside the method

11)define package in java?
package is a group of related (classes, interface, enumeration, annotation)
it is used to prevent naming conflict, control access,to make locating easier 


12)what is singleton class?how to create own singleton class?
13)what are access modifier?
14)what  is class loader in java?
15)which class is the super class  of all classes?
16)what is static keyword?
17)what is final keyword?
18)can we declare class as static?
19)what is static block?
20)what is marker interface?
21)what is enum in java?
22)what is garbage collection?
23)what is serialisation and deserialisation?
24)what is system.out.println in java?
25)how many ways object can be created in java?
26)what are the object class method in java?
27)how to create immutable class in java?
28)what are genrics?
29)default hashcode implementation?
30)what is jdk?
